# Rasa Playground

Learn the basics of building an assistant with Rasa Open Source with this interactive guide. You will be able to customize the assistant, talk to it and download the project so you can continue to build.

通过这个交互式指南了解用Rasa开源构建助手的基本知识。你将能够定制助手，与它对话，并下载项目，以便你能继续构建。

## 一、Build your assistant[#](https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/playground#build-your-assistant)

In this guide, we are creating an assistant that helps users subscribe to a newsletter. Go through each of the steps below to see how a simple assistant is created:

在本指南中，我们将创建一个帮助用户订阅通讯的助手。通过下面的每个步骤，看看如何创建一个简单的助手。

### 1. NLU data

What are the various things people might say to an assistant that can help them subscribe to a newsletter?

For an assistant to recognize what a user is saying no matter how the user phrases their message, we need to provide example messages the assistant can learn from. We group these examples according to the idea or the goal the message is expressing, which is also called the intent. In the code block on the right, we have added an intent called greet, which contains example messages like “Hi”, “Hey”, and “good morning”.

Intents and their examples are used as training data for the assistant's Natural Language Understanding (NLU) model.

```
人们可能对助手说的各种事情是什么，可以帮助他们订阅通讯？

为了使助手能够识别用户所说的话，无论用户如何措辞，我们需要提供助手可以学习的信息范例。我们根据信息所表达的想法或目标将这些例子分组，这也被称为意图。在右边的代码块中，我们添加了一个名为 "问候 "的意图，其中包含了诸如 "嗨"、"嘿 "和 "早上好 "等示例信息。

意图和它们的例子被用作助手的自然语言理解（NLU）模型的训练数据。
```

```markdown
nlu:
- intent: greet
  examples: |
    - Hi
    - Hey!
    - Hallo
    - Good day
    - Good morning

- intent: subscribe
  examples: |
    - I want to get the newsletter
    - Can you send me the newsletter?
    - Can you sign me up for the newsletter?

- intent: inform
  examples: |
    - My email is example@example.com
    - random@example.com
    - Please send it to anything@example.com
    - Email is something@example.com
```

### 2. Responses

Now that the assistant understands a few messages users might say, it needs responses it can send back to the user.

“Hello, how can I help you?” and “what’s your email address?” are some of the responses our assistant will use. You’ll see how to connect user messages and responses in the next steps.

In the code block below, we have listed some responses and added one or more text options for each of them. If a response has multiple text options, one of these options will be chosen at random whenever that response is predicted.

```
现在，助手理解了用户可能说的一些信息，它需要能回馈给用户的回应。

"你好，我能为你做什么？"和 "你的电子邮件地址是什么？"是我们的助理将使用的一些回应。你会在接下来的步骤中看到如何连接用户信息和响应。

在下面的代码块中，我们列出了一些回应，并为每个回应添加了一个或多个文本选项。如果一个回应有多个文本选项，每当预测该回应时，这些选项中的一个将被随机选择。
```

``` markdown
responses:
   utter_greet:
       - text: |
           Hello! How can I help you?
       - text: |
           Hi!
   utter_ask_email:
       - text: |
           What is your email address?
   utter_subscribed:
       - text: |
           Check your inbox at {email} in order to finish subscribing to the newsletter!
       - text: |
           You're all set! Check your inbox at {email} to confirm your subscription.
```

### 3. Stories

[Stories](https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/stories) are example conversations that train an assistant to respond correctly depending on what the user has said previously in the conversation. The story format shows the intent of the user message followed by the assistant’s action or response.

Your first story should show a conversation flow where the assistant helps the user accomplish their goal in a straightforward way. Later, you can add stories for situations where the user doesn't want to provide their information or switches to another topic.

In the code block below, we have added a story where the user and assistant exchange greetings, the user asks to subscribe to the newsletter, and the assistant starts collecting the information it needs through the newsletter_form. You will learn about forms in the next step.

```
故事是对话的例子，它可以训练助手根据用户在对话中以前说过的话做出正确的反应。故事的格式显示了用户信息的意图，然后是助手的行动或反应。

你的第一个故事应该显示一个对话流程，助手以直接的方式帮助用户完成他们的目标。之后，你可以为用户不想提供他们的信息或切换到另一个话题的情况添加故事。

在下面的代码块中，我们添加了一个故事，用户和助手互致问候，用户要求订阅新闻简报，助手开始通过newsletter_form收集它需要的信息。你将在下一步骤中学习表单。
```

```markdown
stories:
 - story: greet and subscribe
   steps:
   - intent: greet
   - action: utter_greet
   - intent: subscribe
   - action: newsletter_form
   - active_loop: newsletter_form
```

### 4. Forms

There are many situations where an assistant needs to collect information from the user. For example, when a user wants to subscribe to a newsletter, the assistant must ask for their email address.

You can do this in Rasa using a form. In the code block below, we added the `newsletter_form` and used it to collect an email address from the user.

```
有很多情况下，助手需要从用户那里收集信息。例如，当用户想订阅新闻简报时，助手必须询问他们的电子邮件地址。

你可以在Rasa中使用一个表单来做这件事。在下面的代码块中，我们添加了newsletter_form并使用它来收集用户的电子邮件地址。
```

```markdown
slots:
  email:
    type: text
    mappings:
    - type: from_text
      conditions:
      - active_loop: newsletter_form
        requested_slot: email
forms:
  newsletter_form:
    required_slots:
    - email
```

### 5. Rules

Rules describe parts of conversations that should always follow the same path no matter what has been said previously in the conversation.

We want our assistant to always respond to a certain intent with a specific action, so we use a rule to map that action to the intent.

In the code block below, we have added a rule that triggers the newsletter_form whenever the user expresses the intent “subscribe”. We’ve also added a rule that triggers the utter_subscribed action once all the required information has been provided. The second rule only applies when the newsletter_form is active to begin with; once it is no longer active (active_loop: null), the form is complete.

```
规则描述了对话的某些部分，这些部分应该始终遵循相同的路径，无论之前在对话中说了什么。

我们希望我们的助手总是用一个特定的动作来回应某个意图，所以我们用一个规则来把这个动作映射到意图上。

在下面的代码块中，我们添加了一个规则，只要用户表达了 "订阅 "的意图，就会触发newsletter_form。我们还添加了一条规则，一旦所有需要的信息都被提供，就会触发utter_subscribed动作。第二条规则只适用于newsletter_form开始时处于活动状态的情况；一旦它不再活动（active_loop: null），该表单就完成了。
```

----

Now that you've gone through all the steps, scroll down to talk to your assistant.

**现在你已经完成了所有的步骤，向下滚动，与你的助手交谈。**

## 二、Train and talk to your assistant

Once you have reviewed the steps above, you’re ready to train your assistant. The training process generates a new machine learning model based on the training data you’ve provided.

```
一旦你 reviewed 上面的步骤，你就准备好训练你的助手了。训练过程会根据你提供的训练数据生成一个新的机器学习模型。
```

模型训练环节

可以本地训练，或者在线训练

## 三、Looking for a challenge? Customize your assistant

You can use this page to create an assistant that does something other than helping users subscribe to a newsletter.

Try choosing a simple task for your assistant to do, like ordering a pizza or booking an appointment. Adapt the code blocks at each step to fit the new scenario, then train your assistant again to see it in action.

```
你可以使用这个页面来创建一个助理，除了帮助用户订阅通讯之外，还可以做一些其他的事情。

试着为你的助手选择一个简单的任务，如订购比萨饼或预约。调整每一步的代码块，以适应新的场景，然后再次训练你的助手，看看它的运作情况。
```

## 四、You have built your assistant! What’s next?

You can download this project and continue building to create a more advanced assistant.

```
你可以下载这个项目并继续构建，以创建一个更高级的助手。
```

When you train a model, you always want to check that your assistant still behaves as you expect. You can do that by talking to your assistant and seeing that it works. However, as your assistant becomes more complex, you will want to use test stories to ensure your model makes correct predictions.

```
当你训练一个模型时，你总是想检查你的助手是否仍然按照你的期望行事。你可以通过与你的助手交谈并看到它的工作情况来做到这一点。然而，随着你的助手变得更加复杂，你将希望使用测试故事来确保你的模型做出正确的预测。
```

Try running `rasa test` to make sure that your assistant passes your tests:

```
尝试运行 rasa test，确保你的助手通过你的测试。
```

```markdown
stories:
- story: test for greet and subscribe
  steps:
  - user: |
     Hello there
    intent: greet
  - action: utter_greet
  - user: |
     I want to subscribe to the newsletter. My email is example@email.com
    intent: subscribe
  - action:  utter_subscribed
```

Check out other docs pages to learn more about [Rasa’s CLI](https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/command-line-interface), [Domains](https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/domain), [Actions](https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/actions), and your config’s [Pipeline](https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/tuning-your-model) and [Policies](https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/policies).

```
查看其他文档页面，了解更多关于Rasa的CLI、域、行动以及你的配置的管道和策略。
```